[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: I'm
your host, David Wilcock.
And welcome back to Disclosure.
Rupert Sheldrake
is blowing my mind.
And it's not over yet.
One of the things we're going
to be discussing in this episode
is totally amazing, the
work of Dr. John Lorber, who
has shown many, many
instances of people
who have a condition
called hydroencephaly,
or water on the brain, where
cerebrospinal fluid gets
backed up into the skull and the
brain is literally destroyed.
And what's left
of it is squashed
down into something that's only
as thick as a slice of baloney
along the interior of the
skull within a little spot
at the bottom of the brainstem.
The whole rest of the
brain inside is all water.
Now, you say to yourself,
well, OK, if that's the case,
then this person shouldn't
even be able to be alive.
They should at least be
in a coma, if not dead.
But that's not what happens.
As you're going to
hear Sheldrake discuss,
one of these guys
actually graduated
from Sheffield University
with a degree in mathematics
and had above average IQ.
He could remember things.
And there's actually
multiple cases of this.
I actually stumped the
wizard on this one.
I brought up something that
Rupert Sheldrake didn't already
know, which is in my book, "The
Source Field Investigations,"
about studies done in Johns
Hopkins University, where you
have children who are
dying from seizures
and they're going to die
if you don't do something.
And the side of the
brain that's damaged,
that's causing the seizures,
that entire hemisphere is
completely removed in what's
called a hemispherectomy.
And the kids are fine.
Half their brain is gone.
And yet they can learn,
and they can remember.
And in fact, they improve.
They stop having seizures.
So this is amazing stuff.
And that's only a
part of what we're
going to be discussing here.
We're also going to get
into the politics, where
Rupert Sheldrake gave
a Ted Talk and speaks
at this thing that's
supposed to be
an open forum for scientific
sharing, but he was suppressed.
And what happens is
really fascinating
because there was a
great public backlash,
and it totally
backfired on the people
trying to suppress the truth.
So this is a very
exciting episode.
We're wrapping it all up
here with Rupert Sheldrake.
And get ready for the adventure.
Here it comes.
Well, you have me thinking about
the multiples effect, something
where--
I have this in my
slideshow that by--
I believe it was
the year 1928, there
was 128 or 144 documented
examples of this--
I'm sure you've looked
into that as well--
where different people
invent, or even in some cases,
try to patent the same
inventions at the same time.
So could you tell us a
little bit about that
and how this relates
to your model?
>>RUPERT SHELDRAKE:
Well, morphic resonance
is a theory that suggests that
when something's happened,
it becomes easier for
someone else to do it,
like the rats solving a puzzle
of getting out of the maze
makes it easier for other
rats to do the same thing.
Now, when someone's working
on a technical puzzle,
they're trying to
invent a new gadget
to solve some problem,
then if they come up
with an invention which is
original and which they patent,
it often happens, as you say,
that someone else comes up
with a very similar idea
around the same time.
And then there's a
dispute between them
about who did it first.
Usually, one accuses the
other of cheating or stealing
their secret or something.
This happened in the
history of science.
The most famous example was
with Isaac Newton and Gottfried
Leibniz, who was the
great German philosopher
and mathematician.
Both of them invented the
infinitesimal calculus
around the same time.
And they spent years of
their lives quarreling
with each other about
who did it first.
But in fact, you see, it
could have been independent.
Actually, one of them
probably did do it first.
And on morphic resonance
basis, the other
would then find it easier to do.
But it's rather hard
to tell exactly who
might have gone there first.
It's also, of course,
possible that confronted
with the same problem,
people would independently
come up with the same
solution if they're smart
and they've got the same kind
of background information.
But there are many
examples from archeology
and from cultural
anthropology where
different cultures
separated widely physically
have come up with similar
kinds of phenomena.
And the theories that
used to be put forward
that they float around the
world on balsa wood rafts,
people carry these
things from continent
to continent on rafts blown
by the wind, morphic resonance
makes the balsa wood
rafts unnecessary.
I mean, they might have existed.
>>DAVID: So this could be
something like the ability
to use a millstone to mill
grain into flour, for example.
>>SHELDRAKE: That sort of thing.
>>DAVID: Is that
what you're saying?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>SHELDRAKE: And like
the independent invention
of agriculture in Central
and South America,
in Mexico and in Peru.
Completely independent origins
of agriculture and civilization
and buildings from the Old World
civilizations and agriculture,
whereas most people think there
was no contact between them.
>>DAVID: Right.
So what you're
saying is that people
are moving as a collective
in a given direction.
Technology is improving as a
result of morphic resonance.
It's happening globally because
we're all essentially connected
to each other in this
greater consciousness matrix.
>>SHELDRAKE: I think so.
But of course,
it's also improving
for obvious everyday
reasons like people
seeing videos on the internet.
I mean, there's lots of
other forms of communication.
>>DAVID: But in the
historical examples you gave--
>>SHELDRAKE: Oh, the
historical examples, yes.
Nowadays, with global
communication systems,
it's hard to disentangle
morphic resonance
from regular communication.
That's why you have to
do special experiments.
>>DAVID: Well, I've also looked
into the concept of how stress
seems to create evolution.
And for example, the
Darwin's finches story
with the Galapagos.
I'm sure you are
familiar with that one.
Could you share with us a little
bit about Darwin's finches
and what happened there?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, I
don't know exactly what
happened in the Galapagos.
But what Darwin is saying is
that in different environments,
you'd have different
selection pressures.
In modern evolutionary
theory, you'd
also say you might have
random mutations, which
in a small population
would mean things
would drift in one direction.
On another island, they might
drift in another direction.
But there were minor differences
between these finches.
The point about Darwin
is he was actually
studying quite small
differences, not things that
made things different
species, but which were
to do with local adaptations.
So he didn't actually study
the origin of species,
he started the origin of
varieties or small adaptations.
>>DAVID: Right.
I think there were
researchers who went
there later to the Galapagos.
And what they saw was that
changes in the finches' beaks
would be the result of changes
in their ability for food.
So if they need to get
really narrow seeds,
their beaks would get
longer and sharper.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: And this would happen
in very short periods of time
compared to the traditional
Darwinian model,
in which evolution
is random, and it
takes a long period of time.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Well, you see, Darwin was
actually a Lamarckian.
Darwin believed
in the inheritance
of acquired characteristics.
He was convinced of it.
And in his book, "The
Variation of Animals and Plants
Under Domestication,"
which is less well known
than his most famous book,
"The Origin of Species,"
he documents many cases of how
plant and animal breeders have
produced different varieties of
dogs and pigeons and cabbages
and so forth.
And he shows that
in many cases, there
are adaptations which
can be inherited.
For example, he wrote
a paper in Nature,
about a dog that he'd
been investigating
that was afraid of butchers.
And whenever it got near a
butcher shop, it was terrified.
And he discovered that
the father of that dog
had been maltreated
by a butcher,
and it had inherited
this fear of butchers.
Now, you see,
that's not possible
on regular genetic inheritance.
It's an acquired characteristic,
this fear of butchers.
And so that side of Darwin,
the Lamarckian side of Darwin,
was sort of airbrushed out.
And the neo-Darwinian
theory of evolution,
which is the current orthodoxy
is Darwin minus Lamarckian
inheritance.
But interestingly, it's all
recently come back again,
having been a taboo in biology,
under the rebranded name
of epigenetic inheritance,
where acquired characteristics,
it's now recognized that
they can indeed be inherited.
And one molecular
basis of this is
changing not the genes
themselves, but the methylation
of side groups on the DNA,
or changing the proteins
that wrap around the DNA.
Those can switch
on or off genes.
And those, in some
cases, can be inherited.
But now the taboo's
been lifted, there's
a fascinating set
of studies going
on at the moment in epigenetics.
A recent study that
was published in Nature
is called inheriting
the fear of fathers.
And it was a study of mice.
And these mice were exposed
to a synthetic chemical
they would never meet in
nature called acetophenone.
And it's an old style
experiment in the sense
that male mice were
exposed to this,
and they were given a
minor electric shock
through their pores.
So whenever they
smelled acetophenone,
they were terrified.
Not surprisingly.
They knew it meant they'd
get an electric shock.
The researchers then
bred from these mice
using artificial insemination.
So there was no contact
between these fathers
and the mothers
and the children.
And they found that the
children and their grandchildren
were terrified of acetophenone.
So there'd been an
inheritance of this fear.
That's why the paper
is called inheriting
the fears of fathers.
Over just one generation.
That's something that would
have been completely ruled out
in 20th century biology, but is
now mainstream in 21st century
biology.
Now, whether that's
because of modifications
of the proteins
around the genes,
or whether it's
something more mysterious
like morphic resonance, or
whether it's a combination
of the two is not yet known.
But the interesting
thing is that now
the taboo has been lifted,
this kind of research
is going ahead.
It's treated as mainstream.
It's not particularly
controversial.
And this actually is one of the
most exciting areas of biology
at the moment, epigenetics.
>>DAVID: Well, I know Johns
Hopkins University has
done research with
hemispherectomies, where
people who have seizures
have one hemisphere
of their brain removed.
And the entire half of
the brain is taken out.
And the seizures, in
many cases, go away.
And there's no loss of
function or IQ or anything.
In fact, in some cases,
it seems to get better.
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, I'd
never heard of that.
But I'd heard of the so-called
split brain experiments that
were done in the
'60s, where they
severed the connection between
the two halves of the brain.
And the reason they did
it, to stop seizures.
The reason they went on doing
it is because most people
didn't notice the difference.
The husbands and
wives of people who'd
had the two halves of their
brain completely separated
didn't notice any abnormal
behavior, which is amazing,
Isn't it, because we assume
that the coordination
of the right and left
halves of the brain
must go through nerves.
The fact that they
were coordinated-- they
could still walk and move
normally and speak normally
and play the piano
normally, which
must involve coordinating the
different sides of the body
and the different
sides of the brain.
That rather suggests that the
coordination is not just based
on nerves, but
there's a field which
is working on and through
both halves of the brain
and unifying what's happening.
>>DAVID: Are you familiar
with hydroencephaly patients?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes these cases
where people can have only 5%
of normal brain volume
as a result of being
born with hydroencephaly.
There was a famous paper by
the British neuroscientist
Lorber called, "Is Your
Brain Really Necessary."
That was published in Science.
When he found perfectly normal
people who-- one of them
had got an IQ of
about 120 and had
got a first class
degree in mathematics
from Sheffield University.
And he got 5% of his
normal brain volume.
>>DAVID: And that means
that most of his brain
is just water?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes, it's
fluid, cerebrospinal fluid.
Yes.
>>DAVID: And it's only
really like the size
of a strip of baloney around
the outside edge of his skull.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: The entire rest of
the interior is all water.
>>SHELDRAKE:
Totally astonishing.
>>DAVID: And just a little
spot above the spinal column.
>>SHELDRAKE:
Totally astonishing.
A recent case of a Chinese
woman who was found by a brain
scan to have no
cerebellum, which
is the part of the brain
responsible for coordinating
movement and action.
She was slightly
abnormal, but had
led a normal, functional
life until they-- well, she
still lives.
But they discovered
that she was totally
lacking what is considered an
essential part of the brain
for coordination of
movement and balance.
>>DAVID: So how could
this guy get a degree
from Sheffield University in
mathematics, and all he's got
is this little slice
of baloney for a brain?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, nobody knows.
I mean, what it tells us is that
standard views, that the brain
is the be all and end all of
consciousness and the mind,
is--
they're rather
exaggerated, those views,
that somehow, people can
adapt to having far less brain
tissue than normal and
yet get on perfectly well.
So I mean, you see, it depends
how you think the mind works.
I think the mind works
through a system of fields
that are expressed through
the brain, rather than it all
being just inside the brain.
And it's still remarkable
that so little brain
can result in somebody
who adapts to it in such
a way they're fairly normal.
>>DAVID: Well, when
someone is clinically dead,
they have cessation
of heartbeat,
of breathing,
and they have cessation
of electrical activity
in the brain.
And as I'm sure
you're aware, there's
many cases of
near-death experience.
And people see examples of
things happening in the room,
but their body is
clinically dead.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: So what do
you think is happening?
>>SHELDRAKE: You
see, I think we all
have the experience of
the body which is not
the same as our normal body,
that is separable from it,
in our dreams.
Every night, all of us dream.
Most of us forget our dreams.
But when you
remember dreams, then
what happens in the dreams is
that you're going to places,
you're talking to people, you're
running, walking, dancing,
swimming, sometimes flying.
You can do all these
things in your dreams.
But clearly, the dream body
that you're doing these with
is not the same as
the physical body
which is lying asleep in bed.
So I think all of us have a kind
of parallel body, a dream body.
And in out-of-the-body
experiences and in near-death
experiences, I think what
happens is people, as it were,
shift into this dream body,
which they've got anyway.
We all have them.
It's not that mysterious.
It's something we're familiar
with from our own experience.
And somehow, their
center of consciousness
moves out of the physical
body, as it does in dreams.
>>DAVID: So that's a
very real thing now
we can tangibly identify.
A lot of the experiments you're
sharing with me suggest like,
for example, that this
soul that we have--
if you want to call it that--
is moving in conjunction
with our aura.
But in the case of
phantom limb pain,
you're still feeling from
some other aspect of yourself
that can ultimately
separate from the body
and is not necessarily dependent
on the body for its existence
per se.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Well, so it seems.
That's what the data suggest.
>>DAVID: But you
could actually think
with that part of yourself.
Or maybe that part is
intrinsically necessary
to think with, hence John
Lorber with his hydroencephaly
patients, and that you cannot
separate the mind and identify
it as the brain, because these
people don't have a brain,
and they're still thinking.
>>SHELDRAKE: They've
still got a bit of brain,
but they've certainly
got much, much less.
>>DAVID: Much less.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Well, that's it.
You see, this is the final
frontier, really, for science,
the consciousness studies.
And until 20 years
ago, most scientists
simply ignored consciousness.
It was not really
studied at all.
You know, behaviorism
was the dominant fashion
in 20th century
psychology in Britain
and the United States, the
idea that all you can do
is measure objective movements
and glandular secretions,
that subjectivity,
actual experience,
is nonscientific,
because it's subjective.
The only thing that's scientific
is objective measurements
of behavior.
They tried to eliminate the
whole realm of subjectivity
and consciousness.
So it's only recently
that this has become
part of the scientific agenda.
And we actually know very
little about the nature
of consciousness
and how it works.
>>DAVID: This brings me to the
subject of this very bizarre
suppression.
If anybody, in my mind,
can claim credibility
in the field of consciousness
science, it's you.
I mean, Deepak Chopra has
written some great books.
And he also certainly
has a lot of credibility.
But you've been doing this way
before he wrote "Ageless Body,
Timeless Mind," since 1981.
You've thoroughly
documented your position
with scientific results.
And you're not just aggregating
other scientific data.
You're doing original research.
You're finding highly
statistically abnormal results
that are consistent
with your hypothesis.
And then you go
and do a TED Talk.
OK, so what did you talk
about that got them so upset?
They actually tried to ban you?
They tried to remove your
video from the internet?
Is that correct?
>>SHELDRAKE: They deleted
it from their main website.
And then they put it in a
naughty corner of the internet,
when a lot of people got very
upset about this censorship.
I was talking about my most
recent book, "Science Set
Free," which in Britain
is called "The Science
Delusion," in which
I look at the 10
dogmas of modern science,
the 10 assumptions
that science is based on, which
are not facts, but assumptions.
One of them is the idea
that the mind is nothing
but the activity of the brain.
It's all inside the head.
Another one is that the
laws of nature are fixed.
And I would say they're
more like habits.
So I was looking
at these dogmas,
looking at them in the light
of scientific discoveries
by science itself and showing
that these assumptions are not
valid and that if we
abandon these assumptions,
move on from them--
and they were all
set down in science between
the 17th and the 19th century.
Science has outgrown
these assumptions,
and yet, it's still locked into
this kind of materialist world
view--
that science can move
on, and all sorts
of new questions and new
research becomes possible.
Well, scientific fundamentalists
don't like this position.
And a lot of militant atheists
have linked their atheism
to a kind of scientific
fundamentalism.
Science isn't a set--
materialism isn't, for
them, a set of assumptions
or a worldview or
a belief system.
It's the truth.
So they think other
people have beliefs,
but they know the truth.
And some of them were deeply
offended by my TED Talk
and protested to TED that
they'd given a platform to me
for pseudo-science and that I
was accusing some scientists
of being dogmatic.
And this was so totally untrue.
And science wasn't dogmatic.
It was totally open-minded
and finding out the truth.
And they got so
angry about me saying
that science was dogmatic,
they insisted on TED
removing this from
their main website.
>>DAVID: And they
actually did it.
>>SHELDRAKE: And
TED actually did it.
They were frightened
by them, because they
thought these people--
they claimed to speak with
the authority of science.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
The science delusion
is the belief
that science already understands
the nature of reality
in principle, leaving any of
the details to be filled in.
This is a very widespread
belief in our society.
It's the kind of belief
system of people who say,
I don't believe in God,
I believe in science.
It's a belief system
which has now been
spread to the entire world.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>DAVID: So TED is supposed
to be ideas worth sharing.
Isn't that their logline?
>>SHELDRAKE: Mm-hmm.
>>DAVID: Now, in
a modern society,
with open information
available online,
shouldn't people be allowed
to make up their own minds
and survey the
evidence for themselves
and decide what is true?
TED's going to guard
the gate and not
even allow people to consider
that what you're saying
is true?
>>SHELDRAKE: Most people have
been bullied by people who
claim to speak in
the name of science,
who pull rank on them and
say, we know, and you don't.
I think they were
bullied into doing this.
And it was a major mistake.
It has done great
damage to their brand.
I think they recognize that now.
>>DAVID: And it
ended up actually
causing the video to be seen
by many more people, right?
>>SHELDRAKE: Exactly, because
Graham Hancock, whose talk was
also banned, told people they're
about to ban it, lots of people
put it up on websites
all over the internet.
When my TEDx talk was taken
down from their main site,
it had 35,000 views.
It's now had well over
a million worldwide.
And so in effect, this
is actually a good thing.
I mean, they actually
helped get the message out.
And I think one has to see
that in any process of paradigm
change, arguments and
controversy is inevitable.
You can't change the paradigm
without people seeing
how the arguments played out.
And in the case
of TED, the people
who were defending standard
scientific materialism
put up extraordinarily
weak arguments.
I mean, they were basically
appealing to authority,
their authority, and
indulging in verbal abuse,
ad hominem attacks on me
and on Graham Hancock.
>>DAVID: You now have your own--
or you're part of a
whistleblower site
that actually
investigates skeptics.
Talk to me about that.
>>SHELDRAKE: I
helped set up a site
10 years ago called
skepticalinvestigations.org,
which investigates skeptics.
And we've now updated it to
a new site, Skeptical About
Skeptics.
And this builds up dossiers
on individual media skeptics
and also organized skepticism.
Because most people
don't realize
there are
organizations whose job
it is to try and debunk
what they call claims
of the paranormal,
anything to do
with parapsychology, alternative
medicine, many aspects
of consciousness studies,
near-death experiences.
>>DAVID: Whole organizations
dedicated to this.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
One of them is
called The Committee
for Skeptical Inquiry.
And it publishes a magazine
called the Skeptical Inquirer.
>>DAVID: And you said
you sent somebody in
to infiltrate one of
these conferences.
What did they see?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well,
they went to one
of these big skeptic congresses.
Basically, a lot of people
who are rather angry,
who want to have certainty, who
want to suppress what they see
as superstition and
pseudoscience, basically,
scientific reactionaries
who are clinging on
to an outmoded worldview
because it gives them
a sense of security.
And they're setting up
organizations with chapters.
One of the workshops they had
at one of these meetings in Las
Vegas called the
Amazing Meeting--
it was promoted by the Randi
organization, James Randi.
A workshop led by him
and Michael Shermer,
editor of the
Skeptic magazine, was
"How to be a Media Skeptic."
And they train
people how to do it.
>>DAVID: "How To Be
a Media Skeptic."
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
And the advertisement
for the workshop
said, "Be the guy the
media call the next time
a charlatan shows up in town."
>>DAVID: Really?
>>SHELDRAKE: And what they
have is trained people.
And then it says, you
don't have to have
any particular
qualifications to do this.
Just behave as if you've
got the authority.
And then it says--
>>DAVID: Oh, my god.
>>SHELDRAKE: And then it says,
found a local skeptics society.
It said, if necessary, you can
be the president, the chairman,
and the secretary yourself.
So you create an organization
that looks credible.
You then, every time
someone shows up
who's promoting alternative
medicine, parapsychology,
or anything like
that, the media like
having someone they can ring
up, your number in their files
that they can just call
for the alternative view.
And you're the guy they call.
And then you just say,
this guy is a charlatan.
The stuff's been discredited.
It's not scientifically
credible, etc.
>>DAVID: Did they teach them
to target the personal attacks
instead of the actual data?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
It's largely by
focusing on people
and saying they're
charlatans, or just saying
their data has been discredited.
They don't go into detail.
Most of them know nothing
about the details.
So we're not dealing
here with just people
using normal skeptical
commonsense skepticism.
We're dealing with an
ideologically motivated
campaign that is well organized,
that has local chapters, that
has national organizations,
international organizations,
and whose agenda is to
roll back the alternative
and complementary medicine,
integrative medicine,
holistic science,
parapsychology, consciousness
studies in the name of an
extreme form of materialism,
a dogmatic materialism.
So it's not just
individual opinions.
We're dealing with
organized efforts here.
And that's what in our website,
Skeptical About Skeptics,
we're informing people about
and documenting the activities
of these media skeptics.
>>DAVID: So what do you
have coming up ahead?
What's your next
big thing people
can be looking out for so
that you continue this battle
and fight the good fight
to educate humanity?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, I'm
part of a group that met,
a group of scientists
that met in February 2014
in Tucson, Arizona called
the Postmaterialist Summit.
And what we're doing
is trying to move
towards a
post-materialist science,
so we can have science
that's still science.
I and my colleagues are
all very pro-science.
But we think science
should be liberated
from this dogmatic
constraint of materialism.
We think it would be better and
more productive, more exciting,
more interesting.
And we're launching a website
called opensciences.org,
which is a portal for the more
open-minded research going
on in the sciences today.
>>DAVID: I'll have
to check that out.
So the books that
you're working on,
do you have a book coming out?
Or what are you
doing in that front?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, the main
book I'm still working on
at the moment is my "Science Set
Free," "The Science Delusion,"
in the sense that I'm
following up the kinds of ideas
that are there.
But I have a book coming
out with Matthew Fox,
the theologian, called
"The Physics of Angels."
And this is a whole big topic
we don't have time to get into.
But what we're doing is looking
at the idea of consciousness
beyond the human level.
In all traditional
societies, people
thought there were many
levels of consciousness
beyond the human level.
In the Middle Ages, they
thought, for example,
that each star had a
mind or an intelligence,
which they called the
angel of that star.
And so the star
was like the body,
and the angel was the mind
or intelligence of that star.
So what we do in
the book is look
at traditional Western ideas
on angels, which were not,
of course, of men
with colored wings.
They were the idea of
cosmic intelligences
and ordering spirits
of the cosmos that
underlay the phenomena
of nature as the guiding
intelligence of them.
And these very
sophisticated views
of angels in writers like
Dionysus the Areopagite, who
was eighth century Syrian
monk, and Saint Thomas
Aquinas in the 13th
century, and Hildegard
of Bingen, a great
medieval abbess in Germany.
All of them had extraordinarily
interesting views.
So Matthew Fox and I take these
traditional Western teachings
on angels.
We do an anthology
of the main texts,
and we discuss them to
see their meaning today.
And if you believe, as I do,
that the universe is full
of many forms of
consciousness or intelligence,
not just an inanimate,
unconscious universe with minds
existing only
inside human skulls
and maybe the minds of a
few other higher animals,
but a universe that is full of
intelligence and consciousness,
then these traditional ways
of thinking about forms
of intelligence beyond
our own, and yet, not
in the consciousness of god,
the intermediate between humans
and god, many, many
levels of consciousness,
that's what we explore in this
book, "The Physics of Angels."
>>DAVID: Wow, that
sounds fascinating.
Well, Rupert, I
want to thank you
so much for being on my show.
And I want to commend
you for your heroic work
to help humanity in
the face of danger.
And I really appreciate all
that you've done for us.
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, thank you.
>>DAVID: Thank you.
I was very encouraged to hear
Rupert Sheldrake say that he's
doing a book with a
theologian named Matthew Fox
called "The Physics of
Angels" because this
is something where I
feel as if he is starting
to veer into a direction that
I've been going for a long time
after I read this book called
"The Law of One" series,
actually a series
of five books, that
were allegedly channeled
from extraterrestrials
all the way back in 1981.
Think about it.
If we have morphic
resonance, if we
have very obvious signs
of telepathy going on,
such as the multiples effect,
where different people are
learning the same
things at the same time,
why couldn't there be
nonphysical intelligence
as well?
If people can live
without having a brain,
that suggests that
the cognitive process
itself may be happening
in the energy body.
Now, you notice I was trying
to kind of shepherd Rupert
Sheldrake in that direction.
He didn't quite bite.
But I believe, actually,
that the brain is really
just an antenna, and that almost
the entire cognitive process--
at least the intellect and
the thinking, rational mind,
not so much the
physical things like
keeping your heart beating,
but the thinking mind
is all energetic.
It's all happening in
an energetic field,
and your brain and your DNA is
just a tuning fork for that.
So if that's true,
then why couldn't there
be other energetic
beings out there,
like people who've been
through a near-death experience
and actually died, who
can then speak to us?
And if that's true,
could there will also
be beings of higher
intelligence, i.e.
Angels, who are giving
us even more information?
So this is really valuable,
because we're seeing science
and spirituality come together.
The ancients took this for
granted because in the past,
apparently, the
angels, in some cases,
were allowed to manifest here
and be luminous beings of light
who could levitate
and could send images
and thoughts into your mind.
And that's all gone away.
But it may be coming back.
So I hope you're enjoying
this, Disclosure in action.
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
speaking truth to power
and giving power to the truth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]